# Charter of the Open Source Robotics Alliance Technical Committee on Enhancement Proposal Processes

11 June 2024


### Names

The names of the Technical Committee shall be "Technical Committee on Enhancement Proposal Processes", "TC on Enhancement Proposal Processes", and "TGC-TC-EPP".


### Chair

The Chair of the Technical Committee shall be Geoffrey Biggs.


### Participants

The following TGC Members shall participate in the Technical Committee.

- Michael X. Grey
- Chris Lalancette
- Steven! Ragnarok
- Addisu Taddese


### Tasks

The Technical Committee shall perform the following tasks.

1. Examine the existing "ROS Enhancement Proposal" process to understand what has worked in the past, what has not worked in the past, and what is lacking.

1. Examine the modern "Python Enhancement Proposal" process to understand how it functions in detail, the benefits it offers to the Python project, and how it differs from the existing "ROS Enhancement Proposal" process.

1. Identify any other "Enhancement Proposal" processes in other (non-OSRF) projects, and examine any found in the same way as the Python Enhancement Proposal process.

1. Based on the above information, draft a complete "Project Enhancement Proposal" process for OSRA Projects.
   The draft shall include both the format of a "Project Enhancement Proposal" document and the full process from inception to adoption of a proposal.
   The proposed process shall allow for project-specific customisation where necessary, and define how that customisation shall be vetted and approved.

1. Provide the draft publicly for a period of no less than one month in order to gather feedback from users of OSRA Projects.

1. Review and incorporate as appropriate any feedback received from users of OSRA Projects.


### Expected outputs

The Technical Committee shall, upon completion of its tasks, provide to the Technical Governance Committee the following:

1. A draft "Project Enhancement Proposal" formal process document.

1. A draft sample "Project Enhancement Proposal" document.

1. Any notes or commentary on the necessity of altering the process and/or the sample proposal document for specific OSRA Projects.

1. A summary of feedback from the community, including how the feedback was addressed.


### Completion date

The Technical Committee shall complete its work by the 31st of December, 2024.


### Meetings

The Technical Committee shall meet at least every two (2) weeks.
Meetings shall be noticed at least three (3) calendar days in advance.
Meeting notice shall include the date, time, URL of the online meeting, and a brief description of the proposed activities of the meeting.

Meetings shall be held online via the teleconference service provided by the OSRF for this purpose.


### Activity reports

The Chair of the Technical Committee shall provide a verbal report of its recent activities in each meeting of the Technical Governance Committee.
The Chair shall additionally provide the Technical Governance Committee with any documents generated by the activities of the Technical Committee, if and when requested by the Technical Governance Committee to do so.


### Asynchronous communication

The Technical Committee shall use a mailing list provided by the OSRF for its asynchronous communication.
The mailing list shall be `tgc-tc-epp@openrobotics.org`.


### Confidentiality requirements

The activities of the Technical Committee shall be conducted using the Chatham House Rule.
Materials produced by the Technical Committee may not be disseminated beyond the members of the Technical Committee without the approval of the Technical Committee.
However, the Technical Committee should err on the side of openness in order to increase confidence in the results of its work by the wider community.
