# Charter of the Open Source Robotics Alliance Technical Committee on Use in Projects of Submissions Produced by Generative AI 

11 June 2024


### Names

The names of the Technical Committee shall be "Technical Committee on Use in Projects of Submissions Produced by Generative AI", "TC on Use in Projects of Submissions Produced by Generative AI", and "TGC-TC-GAI".


### Chair

The Chair of the Technical Committee shall be Steven! Ragnarok.


### Participants

The following TGC Members shall participate in the Technical Committee.

- Geoffrey Biggs
- Vicky Brasseur
- Michael Carroll
- Steven Macenski


### Tasks

The Technical Committee shall perform the following tasks.

1. Examine the capabilities of existing and upcoming tools usable by software engineers, technical writers, artists, and others when producing contributions to OSRA Projects in the form of source code, documentation, visual assets for use at run time, and other such contributions.

1. Examine the current thinking around the legal issues of using the outputs of generative AI-based tools in copyrightable works.

1. Draft a policy applicable to all OSRA Projects on whether or not contributions that use the outputs of generative AI-based tools, in whole or in part, are safe and acceptable for including in the projects.

1. Create a list of ways that OSRA Projects may safely accept contributions that use the outputs of generative AI-based tools, in whole or in part.

1. Solicit feedback from the users of OSRA Projects on their thoughts regarding the use of generative AI-based tools, and their desires regarding such tools.


### Expected outputs

The Technical Committee shall, upon completion of its tasks, provide to the Technical Governance Committee the following:

1. A report on the capabilities and legal status of generative AI-based tools, and the general feeling of the community around OSRA Projects on the use of such tools.

1. A draft policy on accepting or rejecting contributions created in whole or in part using generative AI-based tools.

1. A document describing acceptable ways for OSRA Projects to accept such contributions.


### Completion date

The Technical Committee shall complete its work by the 31st of December, 2024.


### Meetings

The Technical Committee shall meet at least every one (1) months.
Meetings shall be noticed at least seven (7) calendar days in advance.
Meeting notice shall include the date, time, URL of the online meeting, and a brief description of the proposed activities of the meeting.

Meetings shall be held online via the teleconference service provided by the OSRF for this purpose.


### Activity reports

The Chair of the Technical Committee shall provide a verbal report of its recent activities in each meeting of the Technical Governance Committee.
The Chair shall additionally provide the Technical Governance Committee with any documents generated by the activities of the Technical Committee, if and when requested by the Technical Governance Committee to do so.


### Asynchronous communication

The Technical Committee shall use a mailing list provided by the OSRF for its asynchronous communication.
The mailing list shall be `tgc-tc-gai@openrobotics.org`.


### Confidentiality requirements

The activities of the Technical Committee shall be conducted using the Chatham House Rule.
Materials produced by the Technical Committee may not be disseminated beyond the members of the Technical Committee without the approval of the Technical Committee.
However, the Technical Committee should err on the side of openness in order to increase confidence in the results of its work by the wider community.
